---
title: "Moving on"
---

I am not moving on from my attempt to understand music. "Moving on" just happens to be the title of a film I watched on my flight today: the 2020 film directed by Yoon Dan-Bi.

The film depicts the cohabitation of three generations of a family come together, each present due to personal circumstances. It is a quiet film, in the Kore-eda style. I admit I am not so refined a film-watcher so as to understand what makes Kore-eda films deserving of acclaim, moreso than this recent film of Yoon's. Both directors are not easy for me to watch. I need a catalyst or a vacuum of time to put me in the contemplative mood - three hours on a cramped flight suffices. I don't mean to say that these films were in any way a second choice for me. Unexpected resonances make life worth living; they must come out of the quiet. I routinely situate myself in the quiet in an attempt to encounter them. 

_Moving On_ was such a resonance. I chose it absentmindedly from a long list of films - the way it is, on flights these days.




Today's flight marks the beginning of the end of the Covid crisis for me. Others have already or will soon experience something similar. I traveled regularly before the crisis. This came to a halt as Covid struck, and I stationed at my parents' house. My sister did too. The parallels with the film were not uncanny, but they were evident: family as strangers brought together under one roof.

I will now proceed to spoil the film. (Though can indie films really be spoiled?)

The end of the film begins when the main character, Okja, breaks up with her boyfriend by pulling off, and biking away with, his sneakers - a birthdasy gift she had given him earlier in the film. On her way back, she passes by an ambulance. When she arrives at the house, it is already evening, but her little brother is waiting alone outside the house. Grandfather had fainted and was taken to the hospital.

Sister and brother make and eat a simple dinner together. They recently had a falling out, and quietly make up. Okja receives a call from their father, saying that he would be back soon. Grandfather was OK. The children go to sleep, hiding together under mosquito netting - throwback to a scene earlier in the film where Okja had refused to share. As morning approaches, she is woken by another call.

But she doesn't have anything nice to wear, she says sleepily into the phone. After hanging up, she tells her brother that Grandfather had died.

I cried during the scene where Okja and her brother are sitting absently in the taxi, on the way to the funeral in funeral-inadequate polo shirts. The scene was entirely unremarkable, but the stoicism must have gotten to me. One wants to say that such young children cannot understand the gravity of what was happening, but I was the same.

My mom died on March 23rd last year. I wish it hadn't been that day. According to the financial markets, the Covid crisis peaked the same day. 

I didn't realize this until a few days or weeks later. It feels strange that I didn't notice, like missing the event of the decade. My mom paid careful attention to the financial markets, every day for years. I'd developed the habit as well. I wish she'd seen the recovery.

I have been living with my dad and sister for the year and five months since then. I haven't spoken to anyone else about my mom. I wanted to, but being with family during these seventeen months negated the need to explain; and I realized that to explain, it was important that I feel the need.

Today, circumstance has me moving on. I am here at the airport, a little past midnight - spending the night so I can catch the bus in the morning. _Moving On_ is a misnomer. The film ends before it even begins.
