---
title: "About"
---

When I first considered starting this site, the following anecdote from Robert Wolke's popular science novel came to mind:

<div class="media">
<p>When Albert Einstein was in residence at the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton University, an eager young newspaper reporter approached him one day, notebook in hand. “Well, Professor Einstein,” he asked, “what's new in science?”</p>
  
<p>Einstein looked at him with his deep, soft eyes and replied, “Oh? Have you already written about all the old science?”</p>
</div>


Here is another, attributed to Bach, speaking about playing the keyboard:

<div class="media">
<p>There’s nothing remarkable about it. All one has to do is hit the right keys at the right time and the instrument plays itself.</p>
</div>

I took classical piano lessons before college. I wasn't particularly skilled or attentive at the time, but I later started listening to classical music during graduate school. 

My training in music was entirely technical, so I learned nothing about the theory or composition. On the other hand, I studied mathematics in college. It was only a matter of time before hubris compelled me to try learning music theory in a systematic, mathematical way.

My goal for this site is to document my progress as I learn about the fundamentals of music - "old music" - from scratch. I hope this might be interesting to people searching for information about:

1. Learning musical composition but seeking only to understand pitch and rhythm - the right keys at the right time.
2. Arrangements for solo piano with a sole focus on musicality - in particular, without bias toward either end of the difficulty spectrum.
3. Depending on my progress, technology and music - including music notation, sound synthesis, and recording.
